It was a jam-packed news week -- even with President Trump away from DC
It's been a stormy start to spring so far for the Trump administration, with adult film star Stormy Daniels dominating headlines. But -- this being the Trump administration -- the Daniels news wasn't even the biggest news of the week.Instead, the political world's eyes were on former FBI Director James Comey, beginning on Sunday night when he sat down with ABC's George Stephanopoulos. Comey, who was fired by Trump last year, released his book "A Higher Loyalty" on Tuesday and has been making media rounds -- and headlines -- all week. Meanwhile, in Florida, Trump hosted Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Mar-a-Lago (or as the president calls it: "indeed the Southern White House.") Trump also received some good news: Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani will be joining his legal team. Giuliani told CNN his focus will be on interfacing with special counsel Robert Mueller in his Russia probe and to help bring everything to a conclusion. Speaking of Russia ... on Thursday there was a flood of developments related to the Russia investigation.  Read Friday's full edition of The Point newsletter CNN's Brenna Williams compiled a whopping 42 headlines from Monday through Friday, making this one of the more news-packed weeks of the Trump administration to date -- and the President wasn't even in Washington! Monday: Trump slams Comey after bombshell interview Cohen can review seized docs but judge will decide who vets what investigators can see WaPo: Trump hasn't signed off on Russia sanctions Haley announced Tuesday:  Stormy Daniels releases sketch of man who allegedly threatened her over Trump affair Trump and Abe aim to lessen tension over trade and North Korea Wednesday: Trump calls Stormy Daniels composite sketch 'a total con job' Trump, contradicting his own words, denies firing Comey over Russia probe Thursday: Cohen drops defamation suits over infamous dossier Justice Dept. watchdog sends McCabe findings to federal prosecutors for possible charges Friday: Ex-Forbes reporter says Trump posed as spokesman, lied to him to embellish wealth Trump to deliver commencement speech at Naval Academy Judge hears arguments to delay Stormy Daniels case. 